The tapes are on. I want to get back to the white otters of childhood, to wit
the ending. And I have the quotes here. I'm not a very good dramatic reader, so
I won't read them dramatically. But the quote is, at the end, I'm convinced that
we are the freaks of the universe. We were never meant to be. And then it goes
on a little further and says, we're an improper balance of stardust and dross.
Too much of one, not enough of the other. That's an interesting summation, kind
of pessimistic, although I pretty much agree with it. Is that kind of your
personal philosophy? I would have to say that it may have been my personal
philosophy at the time, although really, legitimately, you would have to
attribute it to the protagonist, Mark Reier Reigns, who happens also to be the
narrator. I would say that, no, it's not my particular philosophy any longer.
And that's partly because I think that there may be some significance behind
everything. And I'm continually in the process of looking for it.
A story of yours that was in a rather different vein was Rogue Tomato. Again,
the obvious question, the protagonist's name was Philip K. Philip spelled with
one L. Is this, by any coincidence, related to Philip K. Dick? Oh, it's no
coincidence.
Okay. I didn't think so from the tone of the story or from anything else. I
probably ought to say, however, that some people have seemed to think that the
story embodied a criticism of Philip K. Dick in some way or a criticism of
Kafka. I think what it principally embodied a criticism of or a satire of was
stories that
perhaps had too open or mystical an ending. Stories that used the word rogue in
the title, for one thing. I can think of a great number of science fiction
stories which used the word rogue in the title. And I tried to think of
something that I could conjoin with that word that would be just completely
ludicrous. And so I came up with Rogue Tomato. Okay. Are you working on anything
now? Do you have plans? What do we have to look forward to from you in the
future? I was hoping you would ask. First of all, I have a short story, a second
short story collection coming out from Arkham House with an introduction by Tom
Dish, Thomas Dish. And that collection is entitled One Winter in Eden. And
whereas my previous Arkham House and Pocket Books collection was called Blooded
on Arachne and consisted primarily of science fiction stories, One Winter in
Eden will consist of borderline mainstream stories, fantasies of one sort or
another. I really feel that it's a stronger collection than the first one. In
addition to that, Arkham House will be publishing later on in 1984 a novel of
mine entitled Who Made Strevy Cry? And that last word is spelled C-R-Y-E because
cry is a surname. And it happens to be a send-up of horror novels, which is a
complete departure for me. And I had a good time writing that particular book as
well. I don't know how it's going to be received because a number of publishers
have not known exactly how to or did not know exactly what to make of it, how to
market it, because although it has some elements of a horror novel, it also very
distinctly has parodic or satirical elements. In addition to that, I'll be
working on a novel this year for tour books for David Hartwell, who will be
working there on a freelance basis with this particular novel of mine. It's
going to be an expansion, not really an expansion, a continuation of a novella
of mine published recently in Terry Carr's Universe 13 called Her Habilean
Husband. And I think that the entire book will be called Her Habilean Husband as
well. And it reverses the situation in No Enemy But Time by bringing a proto
-human or a hominid into the present day rather than by sending a contemporary
human being back into Pleistocene, East Africa.
Okay, I said I only had two more questions, but I've got to ask one more. This
is for my curiosity more than something we use on the show. But you, Blooded on
Arachne was published by Arkham House and you mentioned it a couple of times as
they're going to publish your new books. You generally think of Arkham House,
gee, that was H.P. Lovecraft's publisher and that sort of thing. How did you get
tied up with them since I can't think of any other science fiction writer I'm
probably wrong. Greg Baer. Okay, so that through him now? No, no, no. It wasn't
through Greg Baer, but they have done Arkham House is changing directions to
some extent and I don't think it's making everybody who is an Arkham House book
collector entirely happy, but I do think that it's doing a great deal forgive me
to improve the quality of some of the work that comes out from Arkham House and
this is a result of the editor there now a man by the name of James, to me, Jim
Turner. I think along with David Hartwell, Jim Turner is one of the most astute
and helpful editors working in the science fiction field today and he originally
started out of course editing for Arkham House novels and stories in the
Lovecraftian mold. I think he has moved away from that in part because he finds
it difficult to continue or to maintain an interest in that kind of fiction over
a long period of time. He sees that there is some interesting work being done in
the science fiction field as well as in the horror field and he's interested in
experimenting a little bit with hardcover publication of short stories that
might not have otherwise had hardcover publication because they had appeared
originally in science fiction magazines or that sort of thing. But my connection
to Arkham House really right now is dependent upon the fact that Jim Turner
likes my work a great deal and has been very helpful in putting together what I
consider to be really pretty comprehensive collections of my short fiction.
Okay, I see. I'd wondered about that. Well, that's all my questions then. So,
thanks for being patient with us through the non-working phone and all that.
This interview has been a long time in the making but I do appreciate getting to
talk to you. Well, I appreciate your calling too and I thought your questions
were good questions. I hope my answers were reasonably good answers. Okay, well,
the answers were great. We have, it's interesting because sometimes we have
people, you know, I'll come up here with 20 or so questions and ask and I'll say
yes, no and then sometimes the person will take 15 minutes to answer the first
question and so we have all kinds and some people are extremely self-conscious
because they realize they're being recorded and that sort of thing and I can
understand that I would be too but you sounded great and I don't think we're
going to have to do any editing. We're not going to have to cut out any you
knows or anything like that. Let's see, somebody, Howard Waldrop, I guess, he
said you know every other word and we had to cut that out. Well, I've talked to
Howard on the phone before too. I'm not sure I would have realized that he was
saying a lot of you knows but I understand, listen, when you get on the phone
and you know you're going to be recorded, when you get in front of a tape
recorder, period, you begin to act a little bit differently. Yeah, well, we did
him live at AggieCon. He's at every Texas convention so we've gotten to know him
pretty well and we did him live and so I think it's probably worse because when
you're on the phone, you're just there with yourself but when it's live, there
are these people listening to you and that sort of thing and of course, the
tough thing about the phone is that we can't give any feedback and I realize
when I can't give feedback, the kind of uh-huhs or something every once in a
while that that makes it hard on both ends but we seem to be pretty successful
with it so once the, once it improves, once the phone system works as it should,
well then we don't have much trouble. We had to get it, it had a major overhaul
since we talked to you last, so. Well, you were much easier to hear this time.
It was still a little distant but not bad at all. David said thousands of
dollars worth of work, okay. I wanted to ask you a favor. Sometimes people do
this, sometimes people don't so it doesn't matter. Could I send you a couple
books with the return postage and get them signed? Oh, I'd be happy to.
Fantastic. If you send the return postage, how could I possibly refuse? Okay, if
one of them happened to be a funeral for the eyes of fire, would you go ahead
and send it back? Yeah, I would sign it. Okay, okay, I would want to get in.
Okay. Okay, I've enjoyed talking to you. Thank you, enjoyed it very much and
talk to you. Bye-bye now. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye
-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.